README.md, before:

ceph-ansible
============

Ansible playbook for Ceph!

Clone me:

```bash
git clone https://github.com/ceph/ceph-ansible.git
```

## What does it do?

General support for:

* Monitors
* OSDs
* MDSs
* RGW

More details:

* Authentication (cephx), this can be disabled.
* Supports cluster public and private network.
* Monitors deployment. You can easily start with one monitor and then progressively add new nodes. So can deploy one monitor for testing purpose. For production, I recommend to always use an odd number of monitors, 3 tends to be the standard.
* Object Storage Daemons. Like the monitors you can start with a certain amount of nodes and then grow this number. The playbook either supports a dedicated device for storing the journal or both journal and OSD data on the same device (using a tiny partition at the beginning of the device).
* Metadata daemons.
* Collocation. The playbook supports collocating Monitors, OSDs and MDSs on the same machine.
* The playbook was validated on Debian Wheezy, Ubuntu 12.04 LTS and CentOS 6.4.
* Tested on Ceph Dumpling and Emperor.
* A rolling upgrade playbook was written, an upgrade from Dumpling to Emperor was performed and worked.


## Configuring Ceph

The supported method for defining your ceph.conf is to use the `ceph_conf_overrides` variable. This allows you to specify configuration options using
an INI format. This variable can be used to override sections already defined in ceph.conf (see: `roles/ceph-common/templates/ceph.conf.j2`) or to provide
new configuration options. The following sections in ceph.conf are supported: [global], [mon], [osd], [mds] and [rgw].

An example:

```
ceph_conf_overrides:
   global:
     foo: 1234
     bar: 5678
   osd:
     osd mkfs type: ext4
```

### Note
* It is not recommended to use underscores when defining options in the `ceph_conf_overrides` variable (ex. osd_mkfs_type) as this may cause issues with
incorrect configuration options appearing in ceph.conf.
* We will no longer accept pull requests that modify the ceph.conf template unless it helps the deployment. For simple configuration tweaks
please use the `ceph_conf_overrides` variable.

### Networking

In any case, you must define `monitor_interface` variable with the network interface name which will carry the IP address in the `public_network` subnet.
`monitor_interface` must be defined at least in `group_vars/all.yml` but it can be overrided in inventory host file if needed.
You can specify for each monitor on which IP address it will bind to by specifying the `monitor_address` variable in the **inventory host file**.
You can also use the `monitor_address_block` feature, just specify a subnet, ceph-ansible will automatically set the correct addresses in ceph.conf
Preference will go to `monitor_address_block` if specified, then `monitor_address`, otherwise it will take the first IP address found on the network interface specified in `monitor_interface` by default.

## Special notes

If you are looking at deploying a Ceph version older than Jewel.
It is highly recommended that you apply the following settings to your `group_vars/all.yml` file on the `ceph_conf_overrides` variable:

```
ceph_conf_overrides:
  osd:
    osd recovery max active: 5
    osd max backfills: 2
    osd recovery op priority: 2
    osd recovery threads: 1
```

https://github.com/ceph/ceph-ansible/pull/694 removed all the default options that were part of the repo.
The goal is to keep the default from Ceph.
Below you will find the configuration that was applied prior to the PR in case you want to keep using them:

Setting | ceph-ansible | ceph
--- | --- | ---
cephx require signatures | true | false
cephx cluster require signatures | true | false
osd pool default pg num | 128 | 8
osd pool default pgp num | 128 | 8
rbd concurrent management ops | 20 | 10
rbd default map options | rw | ''
rbd default format | 2 | 1 
mon osd down out interval | 600 | 300
mon osd min down reporters | 7 | 1
mon clock drift allowed | 0.15 | 0.5
mon clock drift warn backoff | 30 | 5
mon osd report timeout | 900 | 300 
mon pg warn max per osd | 0 | 300
mon osd allow primary affinity | true | false
filestore merge threshold | 40 | 10
filestore split multiple | 8 | 2
osd op threads | 8 | 2
filestore op threads | 8 | 2
osd recovery max active | 5 | 15
osd max backfills | 2 | 10
osd recovery op priority | 2 | 63
osd recovery max chunk | 1048576 | 8 << 20
osd scrub sleep | 0.1 | 0
osd disk thread ioprio class | idle | ''
osd disk thread ioprio priority | 0 | -1
osd deep scrub stride | 1048576 | 524288
osd scrub chunk max | 5 | 25

If you want to use them, just use the `ceph_conf_overrides` variable as explained above.

## FAQ

1. I want to have OSD numbers seriallized between hosts, so the first OSD node has osd 1,2,3 and the second has osd 4,5,6 etc. How can I do this?
Simply add `serial: 1` after the osd section `- hosts: osds` in your `site.yml` file.

## Setup with Vagrant using virtualbox provider

* Create vagrant_variables.yml

```
$ cp vagrant_variables.yml.sample vagrant_variables.yml
```

* Create site.yml

```
$ cp site.yml.sample site.yml
```

* Create VMs

```
$ vagrant up --no-provision --provider=virtualbox
$ vagrant provision
...
...
...
 ____________
< PLAY RECAP >
 ------------
        \   ^__^
         \  (oo)\_______
            (__)\       )\/\
                ||----w |
                ||     ||


mon0                       : ok=16   changed=11   unreachable=0    failed=0
mon1                       : ok=16   changed=10   unreachable=0    failed=0
mon2                       : ok=16   changed=11   unreachable=0    failed=0
osd0                       : ok=19   changed=7    unreachable=0    failed=0
osd1                       : ok=19   changed=7    unreachable=0    failed=0
osd2                       : ok=19   changed=7    unreachable=0    failed=0
rgw                        : ok=20   changed=17   unreachable=0    failed=0
```

Check the status:

```bash
$ vagrant ssh mon0 -c "sudo ceph -s"
    cluster 4a158d27-f750-41d5-9e7f-26ce4c9d2d45
     health HEALTH_OK
     monmap e3: 3 mons at {ceph-mon0=192.168.0.10:6789/0,ceph-mon1=192.168.0.11:6789/0,ceph-mon2=192.168.0.12:6789/0}, election epoch 6, quorum 0,1,2 ceph-mon0,ceph-mon1,ceph-mon
     mdsmap e6: 1/1/1 up {0=ceph-osd0=up:active}, 2 up:standby
     osdmap e10: 6 osds: 6 up, 6 in
      pgmap v17: 192 pgs, 3 pools, 9470 bytes data, 21 objects
            205 MB used, 29728 MB / 29933 MB avail
                 192 active+clean
```

To re-run the Ansible provisioning scripts:

```bash
$ vagrant provision
```

## Specifying fsid and secret key in production

The Vagrantfile specifies an fsid for the cluster and a secret key for the
monitor. If using these playbooks in production, you must generate your own `fsid`
in `group_vars/all.yml` and `monitor_secret` in `group_vars/mons.yml`. Those files contain
information about how to generate appropriate values for these variables.

## Specifying package origin

By default, ceph-common installs from Ceph repository. However, you
can set `ceph_origin` to "distro" to install Ceph from your default repository.

## Setup for Vagrant using libvirt provider

* Create vagrant_variables.yml

```
$ cp vagrant_variables.yml.sample vagrant_variables.yml
```

* Edit `vagrant_variables.yml` and setup the following variables:

```yml
memory: 1024
disks: "[ '/dev/vdb', '/dev/vdc' ]"
vagrant_box: centos/7
```

* Create site.yml

```
$ cp site.yml.sample site.yml
```

* Create VMs

```
$ sudo vagrant up --no-provision --provider=libvirt
$ sudo vagrant provision
```

## Setup for Vagrant using parallels provider

* Create vagrant_variables.yml

```
$ cp vagrant_variables.yml.sample vagrant_variables.yml
```

* Edit `vagrant_variables.yml` and setup the following variables:

```yml
vagrant_box: parallels/ubuntu-14.04
```

* Create site.yml

```
$ cp site.yml.sample site.yml
```

* Create VMs

```
$ vagrant up --no-provision --provider=parallels
$ vagrant provision
```

### For Debian based systems

If you want to use "backports", you can set "true" to `ceph_use_distro_backports`.
Attention, ceph-common doesn't manage backports repository, you must add it yourself.

### For Atomic systems

If you want to run containerized deployment on Atomic systems (RHEL/CentOS Atomic), please copy
[vagrant_variables.yml.atomic](vagrant_variables.yml.atomic) to vagrant_variables.yml, and copy [group_vars/all.docker.yml.sample](group_vars/all.docker.yml.sample) to `group_vars/all.yml`.

Since `centos/atomic-host` VirtualBox box doesn't have spare storage controller to attach more disks, it is likely the first time `vagrant up --provider=virtualbox` runs, it will fail to attach to a storage controller. In such case, run the following command:

```console
VBoxManage storagectl `VBoxManage list vms |grep ceph-ansible_osd0|awk '{print $1}'|tr \" ' '` --name "SATA" --add sata
```

then run `vagrant up --provider=virtualbox` again.

## Setup for Vagrant using OpenStack provider

Install the Vagrant plugin for the openstack provider: `vagrant plugin install vagrant-openstack-provider`.

```bash
$ cp site.yml.sample site.yml
$ cp group_vars/all.docker.yml.sample group_vars/all.yml
$ cp vagrant_variables.yml.openstack vagrant_variables.yml
```
* Edit `vagrant_variables.yml`:
  Set `mon_vms` and `osd_vms` to the numbers you want.
  If you are using an Atomic image, un-comment out the `skip_tags` line.
  Un-comment the `os_` lines.
    Set `os_ssh_username` to 'centos' for Centos and 'cloud-user' for
        RHEL images.
    Set `os_ssh_private_key_path` to '~/.ssh/id_rsa'
    Set `os_openstack_auth_url` to the auth url of your Open Stack cloud
    Set `os_username` and `os_password` to what you provided for Open Stack 
        registration or leave them as ENV vars if you have set the
        corresponding env vars for your user.
    Set `os_tenant_name` to your Open Stack cloud project name.
    Set `os_region` to your Open Stack cloud region name.
    Set `os_flavor` to 'm3.medium'.  This size has ephemeral storage that will
        be used by the OSD for the /dev/vdb disk
    Set the `os_image` to an image found in the Images list in the Open Stack
        cloud Dashboard (i.e. 'centos-atomic-host').
    Set the `os_keypair_name` to the keypair name you used when you did the
        Open Stack registration.
```
$ vagrant up --provider=openstack
```
Once the playbook is finished, you should be able to do `vagrant ssh mon0` or
`vagrant ssh osd0` to get to the VMs.
`sudo docker ps` should show the running containers
When you are done, use `vagrant destroy` to get rid of the VMs.  You should
also remove the associated entries in .ssh/known_hosts so that if the IP
addresses get reused by future Open Stack Cloud instances there will not be
old known_hosts entries.

# Want to contribute?

Read this carefully then :).
The repository centralises all the Ansible roles.
The roles are all part of the Galaxy.
We love contribution and we love giving visibility to our contributors, this is why all the **commits must be signed-off**.

## Tools
### Mailing list
Please register the mailing list at http://lists.ceph.com/listinfo.cgi/ceph-ansible-ceph.com

### IRC
Feel free to join us in the channel #ceph-ansible of the OFTC servers

### Github
The maing github account for the project is at https://github.com/ceph/ceph-ansible/

## Submit a patch

To start contributing just do:

```
$ git checkout -b my-working-branch
$ # do your changes #
$ git add -p
```

One more step, before pushing your code you should run a syntax check:

```
$ ansible-playbook -i dummy-ansible-hosts test.yml --syntax-check
```

If your change impacts a variable file in a role such as `roles/ceph-common/defaults/main.yml`, you need to generate a `group_vars` file:

```
$ ./generate_group_vars_sample.sh
```

You are finally ready to push your changes on Github:

```
$ git commit -s
$ git push origin my-working-branch
```

Worked on a change and you don't want to resend a commit for a syntax fix?

```
$ # do your syntax change #
$ git commit --amend
$ git push -f origin my-working-branch
```

# Testing PR

Go on the github interface and submit a PR.

Now we have 2 online CIs:

* Travis, simply does a syntax check
* Jenkins Ceph: bootstraps one monitor, one OSD, one RGW

If Jenkins detects that your commit broke something it will turn red.
You can then check the logs of the Jenkins by clicking on "Testing Playbooks" button in your PR and go to "Console Output".
You can now submit a new commit/change that will update the CI system to run a new play.

It might happen that the CI does not get reloaded so you can simply leave a comment on your PR with "test this please" and it will trigger a new CI build.

# Backporting changes

If a change should be backported to a `stable-*` Git branch:

* Mark your PR with the GitHub label "Backport" so we don't lose track of it.
* Fetch the latest updates into your clone: `git fetch`
* Determine the latest available stable branch:
  `git branch -r --list "origin/stable-[0-9].[0-9]" | sort -r | sed 1q`
* Create a new local branch for your PR, based on the stable branch:
  `git checkout --no-track -b my-backported-change origin/stable-2.2`
* Cherry-pick your change: `git cherry-pick -x (your-sha1)`
* Create a new pull request against the `stable-2.2` branch.
* Ensure that your PR's title has the prefix "backport:", so it's clear
  to reviewers what this is about.
* Add a comment in your backport PR linking to the original (master) PR.

All changes to the stable branches should land in master first, so we avoid
regressions.

Once this is done, one of the project maintainers will tag the tip of the
stable branch with your change. For example:

```
git checkout stable-2.2
git pull --ff-only
git tag v2.2.5
git push origin v2.2.5
```

You can query backport-related items in GitHub:
* [all PRs labeled as backport candidates](https://github.com/ceph/ceph-ansible/pulls?q=is%3Apr%20label%3Abackport). The "open" ones must be merged to master first. The "closed" ones need to be backported to the stable branch.
* [all backport PRs for stable-2.2](https://github.com/ceph/ceph-ansible/pulls?q=base%3Astable-2.2)
  to see if a change has already been backported.

## Vagrant Demo

[![Ceph-ansible Vagrant Demo](http://img.youtube.com/vi/E8-96NamLDo/0.jpg)](https://youtu.be/E8-96NamLDo "Deploy Ceph with Ansible (Vagrant demo)")


## Bare metal demo

Deployment from scratch on bare metal machines:

[![Ceph-ansible bare metal demo](http://img.youtube.com/vi/dv_PEp9qAqg/0.jpg)](https://youtu.be/dv_PEp9qAqg "Deploy Ceph with Ansible (Bare metal demo)")

Commit message:

2018-01-26:  FG;  Create symlink structure to properly handle infrastructure-playbooks.

README.md, after:

Localized version of ceph-ansible
=================================

Assume you handle local clusters in a separately maintained package.
Make sure you create a symlink ``cluster-primary`` to the main
directory of such package: the symlink name has to be as indicated,
since it is referenced in other parts of this package, like
``infrastructure-playbooks``.


ceph-ansible
============

Ansible playbook for Ceph!

Clone me:

```bash
git clone https://github.com/ceph/ceph-ansible.git
```

## What does it do?

General support for:

* Monitors
* OSDs
* MDSs
* RGW

More details:

* Authentication (cephx), this can be disabled.
* Supports cluster public and private network.
* Monitors deployment. You can easily start with one monitor and then progressively add new nodes. So can deploy one monitor for testing purpose. For production, I recommend to always use an odd number of monitors, 3 tends to be the standard.
* Object Storage Daemons. Like the monitors you can start with a certain amount of nodes and then grow this number. The playbook either supports a dedicated device for storing the journal or both journal and OSD data on the same device (using a tiny partition at the beginning of the device).
* Metadata daemons.
* Collocation. The playbook supports collocating Monitors, OSDs and MDSs on the same machine.
* The playbook was validated on Debian Wheezy, Ubuntu 12.04 LTS and CentOS 6.4.
* Tested on Ceph Dumpling and Emperor.
* A rolling upgrade playbook was written, an upgrade from Dumpling to Emperor was performed and worked.


## Configuring Ceph

The supported method for defining your ceph.conf is to use the `ceph_conf_overrides` variable. This allows you to specify configuration options using
an INI format. This variable can be used to override sections already defined in ceph.conf (see: `roles/ceph-common/templates/ceph.conf.j2`) or to provide
new configuration options. The following sections in ceph.conf are supported: [global], [mon], [osd], [mds] and [rgw].

An example:

```
ceph_conf_overrides:
   global:
     foo: 1234
     bar: 5678
   osd:
     osd mkfs type: ext4
```

### Note
* It is not recommended to use underscores when defining options in the `ceph_conf_overrides` variable (ex. osd_mkfs_type) as this may cause issues with
incorrect configuration options appearing in ceph.conf.
* We will no longer accept pull requests that modify the ceph.conf template unless it helps the deployment. For simple configuration tweaks
please use the `ceph_conf_overrides` variable.

### Networking

In any case, you must define `monitor_interface` variable with the network interface name which will carry the IP address in the `public_network` subnet.
`monitor_interface` must be defined at least in `group_vars/all.yml` but it can be overrided in inventory host file if needed.
You can specify for each monitor on which IP address it will bind to by specifying the `monitor_address` variable in the **inventory host file**.
You can also use the `monitor_address_block` feature, just specify a subnet, ceph-ansible will automatically set the correct addresses in ceph.conf
Preference will go to `monitor_address_block` if specified, then `monitor_address`, otherwise it will take the first IP address found on the network interface specified in `monitor_interface` by default.

## Special notes

If you are looking at deploying a Ceph version older than Jewel.
It is highly recommended that you apply the following settings to your `group_vars/all.yml` file on the `ceph_conf_overrides` variable:

```
ceph_conf_overrides:
  osd:
    osd recovery max active: 5
    osd max backfills: 2
    osd recovery op priority: 2
    osd recovery threads: 1
```

https://github.com/ceph/ceph-ansible/pull/694 removed all the default options that were part of the repo.
The goal is to keep the default from Ceph.
Below you will find the configuration that was applied prior to the PR in case you want to keep using them:

Setting | ceph-ansible | ceph
--- | --- | ---
cephx require signatures | true | false
cephx cluster require signatures | true | false
osd pool default pg num | 128 | 8
osd pool default pgp num | 128 | 8
rbd concurrent management ops | 20 | 10
rbd default map options | rw | ''
rbd default format | 2 | 1 
mon osd down out interval | 600 | 300
mon osd min down reporters | 7 | 1
mon clock drift allowed | 0.15 | 0.5
mon clock drift warn backoff | 30 | 5
mon osd report timeout | 900 | 300 
mon pg warn max per osd | 0 | 300
mon osd allow primary affinity | true | false
filestore merge threshold | 40 | 10
filestore split multiple | 8 | 2
osd op threads | 8 | 2
filestore op threads | 8 | 2
osd recovery max active | 5 | 15
osd max backfills | 2 | 10
osd recovery op priority | 2 | 63
osd recovery max chunk | 1048576 | 8 << 20
osd scrub sleep | 0.1 | 0
osd disk thread ioprio class | idle | ''
osd disk thread ioprio priority | 0 | -1
osd deep scrub stride | 1048576 | 524288
osd scrub chunk max | 5 | 25

If you want to use them, just use the `ceph_conf_overrides` variable as explained above.

## FAQ

1. I want to have OSD numbers seriallized between hosts, so the first OSD node has osd 1,2,3 and the second has osd 4,5,6 etc. How can I do this?
Simply add `serial: 1` after the osd section `- hosts: osds` in your `site.yml` file.

## Setup with Vagrant using virtualbox provider

* Create vagrant_variables.yml

```
$ cp vagrant_variables.yml.sample vagrant_variables.yml
```

* Create site.yml

```
$ cp site.yml.sample site.yml
```

* Create VMs

```
$ vagrant up --no-provision --provider=virtualbox
$ vagrant provision
...
...
...
 ____________
< PLAY RECAP >
 ------------
        \   ^__^
         \  (oo)\_______
            (__)\       )\/\
                ||----w |
                ||     ||


mon0                       : ok=16   changed=11   unreachable=0    failed=0
mon1                       : ok=16   changed=10   unreachable=0    failed=0
mon2                       : ok=16   changed=11   unreachable=0    failed=0
osd0                       : ok=19   changed=7    unreachable=0    failed=0
osd1                       : ok=19   changed=7    unreachable=0    failed=0
osd2                       : ok=19   changed=7    unreachable=0    failed=0
rgw                        : ok=20   changed=17   unreachable=0    failed=0
```

Check the status:

```bash
$ vagrant ssh mon0 -c "sudo ceph -s"
    cluster 4a158d27-f750-41d5-9e7f-26ce4c9d2d45
     health HEALTH_OK
     monmap e3: 3 mons at {ceph-mon0=192.168.0.10:6789/0,ceph-mon1=192.168.0.11:6789/0,ceph-mon2=192.168.0.12:6789/0}, election epoch 6, quorum 0,1,2 ceph-mon0,ceph-mon1,ceph-mon
     mdsmap e6: 1/1/1 up {0=ceph-osd0=up:active}, 2 up:standby
     osdmap e10: 6 osds: 6 up, 6 in
      pgmap v17: 192 pgs, 3 pools, 9470 bytes data, 21 objects
            205 MB used, 29728 MB / 29933 MB avail
                 192 active+clean
```

To re-run the Ansible provisioning scripts:

```bash
$ vagrant provision
```

## Specifying fsid and secret key in production

The Vagrantfile specifies an fsid for the cluster and a secret key for the
monitor. If using these playbooks in production, you must generate your own `fsid`
in `group_vars/all.yml` and `monitor_secret` in `group_vars/mons.yml`. Those files contain
information about how to generate appropriate values for these variables.

## Specifying package origin

By default, ceph-common installs from Ceph repository. However, you
can set `ceph_origin` to "distro" to install Ceph from your default repository.

## Setup for Vagrant using libvirt provider

* Create vagrant_variables.yml

```
$ cp vagrant_variables.yml.sample vagrant_variables.yml
```

* Edit `vagrant_variables.yml` and setup the following variables:

```yml
memory: 1024
disks: "[ '/dev/vdb', '/dev/vdc' ]"
vagrant_box: centos/7
```

* Create site.yml

```
$ cp site.yml.sample site.yml
```

* Create VMs

```
$ sudo vagrant up --no-provision --provider=libvirt
$ sudo vagrant provision
```

## Setup for Vagrant using parallels provider

* Create vagrant_variables.yml

```
$ cp vagrant_variables.yml.sample vagrant_variables.yml
```

* Edit `vagrant_variables.yml` and setup the following variables:

```yml
vagrant_box: parallels/ubuntu-14.04
```

* Create site.yml

```
$ cp site.yml.sample site.yml
```

* Create VMs

```
$ vagrant up --no-provision --provider=parallels
$ vagrant provision
```

### For Debian based systems

If you want to use "backports", you can set "true" to `ceph_use_distro_backports`.
Attention, ceph-common doesn't manage backports repository, you must add it yourself.

### For Atomic systems

If you want to run containerized deployment on Atomic systems (RHEL/CentOS Atomic), please copy
[vagrant_variables.yml.atomic](vagrant_variables.yml.atomic) to vagrant_variables.yml, and copy [group_vars/all.docker.yml.sample](group_vars/all.docker.yml.sample) to `group_vars/all.yml`.

Since `centos/atomic-host` VirtualBox box doesn't have spare storage controller to attach more disks, it is likely the first time `vagrant up --provider=virtualbox` runs, it will fail to attach to a storage controller. In such case, run the following command:

```console
VBoxManage storagectl `VBoxManage list vms |grep ceph-ansible_osd0|awk '{print $1}'|tr \" ' '` --name "SATA" --add sata
```

then run `vagrant up --provider=virtualbox` again.

## Setup for Vagrant using OpenStack provider

Install the Vagrant plugin for the openstack provider: `vagrant plugin install vagrant-openstack-provider`.

```bash
$ cp site.yml.sample site.yml
$ cp group_vars/all.docker.yml.sample group_vars/all.yml
$ cp vagrant_variables.yml.openstack vagrant_variables.yml
```
* Edit `vagrant_variables.yml`:
  Set `mon_vms` and `osd_vms` to the numbers you want.
  If you are using an Atomic image, un-comment out the `skip_tags` line.
  Un-comment the `os_` lines.
    Set `os_ssh_username` to 'centos' for Centos and 'cloud-user' for
        RHEL images.
    Set `os_ssh_private_key_path` to '~/.ssh/id_rsa'
    Set `os_openstack_auth_url` to the auth url of your Open Stack cloud
    Set `os_username` and `os_password` to what you provided for Open Stack 
        registration or leave them as ENV vars if you have set the
        corresponding env vars for your user.
    Set `os_tenant_name` to your Open Stack cloud project name.
    Set `os_region` to your Open Stack cloud region name.
    Set `os_flavor` to 'm3.medium'.  This size has ephemeral storage that will
        be used by the OSD for the /dev/vdb disk
    Set the `os_image` to an image found in the Images list in the Open Stack
        cloud Dashboard (i.e. 'centos-atomic-host').
    Set the `os_keypair_name` to the keypair name you used when you did the
        Open Stack registration.
```
$ vagrant up --provider=openstack
```
Once the playbook is finished, you should be able to do `vagrant ssh mon0` or
`vagrant ssh osd0` to get to the VMs.
`sudo docker ps` should show the running containers
When you are done, use `vagrant destroy` to get rid of the VMs.  You should
also remove the associated entries in .ssh/known_hosts so that if the IP
addresses get reused by future Open Stack Cloud instances there will not be
old known_hosts entries.

# Want to contribute?

Read this carefully then :).
The repository centralises all the Ansible roles.
The roles are all part of the Galaxy.
We love contribution and we love giving visibility to our contributors, this is why all the **commits must be signed-off**.

## Tools
### Mailing list
Please register the mailing list at http://lists.ceph.com/listinfo.cgi/ceph-ansible-ceph.com

### IRC
Feel free to join us in the channel #ceph-ansible of the OFTC servers

### Github
The maing github account for the project is at https://github.com/ceph/ceph-ansible/

## Submit a patch

To start contributing just do:

```
$ git checkout -b my-working-branch
$ # do your changes #
$ git add -p
```

One more step, before pushing your code you should run a syntax check:

```
$ ansible-playbook -i dummy-ansible-hosts test.yml --syntax-check
```

If your change impacts a variable file in a role such as `roles/ceph-common/defaults/main.yml`, you need to generate a `group_vars` file:

```
$ ./generate_group_vars_sample.sh
```

You are finally ready to push your changes on Github:

```
$ git commit -s
$ git push origin my-working-branch
```

Worked on a change and you don't want to resend a commit for a syntax fix?

```
$ # do your syntax change #
$ git commit --amend
$ git push -f origin my-working-branch
```

# Testing PR

Go on the github interface and submit a PR.

Now we have 2 online CIs:

* Travis, simply does a syntax check
* Jenkins Ceph: bootstraps one monitor, one OSD, one RGW

If Jenkins detects that your commit broke something it will turn red.
You can then check the logs of the Jenkins by clicking on "Testing Playbooks" button in your PR and go to "Console Output".
You can now submit a new commit/change that will update the CI system to run a new play.

It might happen that the CI does not get reloaded so you can simply leave a comment on your PR with "test this please" and it will trigger a new CI build.

# Backporting changes

If a change should be backported to a `stable-*` Git branch:

* Mark your PR with the GitHub label "Backport" so we don't lose track of it.
* Fetch the latest updates into your clone: `git fetch`
* Determine the latest available stable branch:
  `git branch -r --list "origin/stable-[0-9].[0-9]" | sort -r | sed 1q`
* Create a new local branch for your PR, based on the stable branch:
  `git checkout --no-track -b my-backported-change origin/stable-2.2`
* Cherry-pick your change: `git cherry-pick -x (your-sha1)`
* Create a new pull request against the `stable-2.2` branch.
* Ensure that your PR's title has the prefix "backport:", so it's clear
  to reviewers what this is about.
* Add a comment in your backport PR linking to the original (master) PR.

All changes to the stable branches should land in master first, so we avoid
regressions.

Once this is done, one of the project maintainers will tag the tip of the
stable branch with your change. For example:

```
git checkout stable-2.2
git pull --ff-only
git tag v2.2.5
git push origin v2.2.5
```

You can query backport-related items in GitHub:
* [all PRs labeled as backport candidates](https://github.com/ceph/ceph-ansible/pulls?q=is%3Apr%20label%3Abackport). The "open" ones must be merged to master first. The "closed" ones need to be backported to the stable branch.
* [all backport PRs for stable-2.2](https://github.com/ceph/ceph-ansible/pulls?q=base%3Astable-2.2)
  to see if a change has already been backported.

## Vagrant Demo

[![Ceph-ansible Vagrant Demo](http://img.youtube.com/vi/E8-96NamLDo/0.jpg)](https://youtu.be/E8-96NamLDo "Deploy Ceph with Ansible (Vagrant demo)")


## Bare metal demo

Deployment from scratch on bare metal machines:

[![Ceph-ansible bare metal demo](http://img.youtube.com/vi/dv_PEp9qAqg/0.jpg)](https://youtu.be/dv_PEp9qAqg "Deploy Ceph with Ansible (Bare metal demo)")
